[Music]
welcome to b2b marketing and more with
your host Pam dinner as the leading
marketing and sales enablement
strategist keynote speaker and author
camp created this podcast to share a
professional experience and insights and
to help you be a better b2b marketer
never miss an episode by subscribing on
Apple podcasts now let's get started
[Music]
good morning from Paul in Oregon I have
a confession to make
I travel a lot and most of my clients
are not in Portland Oregon the truth is
that I don't know many local marketers
and that's kind of embarrassing so I
attended a networking event the other
day and I had an opportunity to talk to
several local marketers and that was a
lot of fun and one of the young
marketers I met Ken asked me an
interesting question how do I know if a
marketing career is right for me hmm
interesting
do you receive a marketing job offer
after you graduated from college the job
is not exactly what I expected
therefore he started questioning whether
this is right career path for him you
know what the question he poses is
perfectly legit especially if you don't
like your job or what you are doing at
this time
so I asked him if he knows what he wants
to try next he said that is not sure I
also asked him if there's any specific
part of marketing that he enjoys he said
he loves creative and a copywriting
mm-hmm I get that but is really not much
into data analysis I get that too yet as
part of his job he needs to do SEO and a
social media analysis so I myself don't
much enjoy their analysis especially
trying to pull analysis manually from
multiple sources ah what of a major pain
so here's what I share with him
everything has two sides
while there may be parts of a job that
we enjoy very much but he is usually
some part of it that we hate with a
passion that's just part of the life and
I told him not to write off marketing
just yet pay attention and be in tune
with lucky likes and doesn't like
observe what he's naturally good at and
what areas he needs to improve oh by the
way I want to make it very clear I
didn't advise him to only focus on the
part of the job he likes and ignore the
parts that he doesn't like for example
I've never liked to do data analysis but
being able to analyze data is a vital
part of modern marketing I can't just
ignore that and not do it so to solve
that problem
I could either find a way to do it
myself or delegate to someone else to do
it for this specific case rather than
just letting someone else do it
I look at it as a learning opportunity
that doesn't mean I need to learn how to
code so I can do the data analysis I'm
not a coder I will never be a coder and
that is my limitation I'm fully aware of
it if I need to learn to code to do data
analysis you might as well just kill me
seriously
so I find their body tool to conduct the
analysis learning how to use new tools
and dissect data is a way to expand my
marketing skills and that's one way of
dealing with a positive job I don't like
find a way to learn or delegate to
others okay but sometimes sometimes you
can't find solution to deal with
something that you don't enjoy doing
sometimes you just can't for example I
have a friend who is an awesome awesome
human manager but with digital she also
needs to learn how to promote her events
on social media but no matter how hard
she tried okay no matter how hard she
tried she just doesn't get how to do
social media effectively you know she
copywriting is not that good sometimes
she forgot the links for the code to
action and the image that she chose it's
just not like social media centric if
you well
so over a period of time she learned
that this is not something that she's
very good at and she also know that she
reached her limitation so finally she's
just hire a contractor and she sticks to
what she knows best which is doing a
physical event production and execution
therefore is important to find ways to
work around or deal with the parts of a
job that you don't like to do
although Ken told me that he likes
creative and copywriting and he's not
crazy about SEO and social media I told
him to observe and pay attention to his
daily tasks and write down what he does
every day sometimes is not what you do
but it's how you do it maybe changing
the processes or using different tools
would substantially change how he feels
about SEO and social media right you
never know and when I mention that you
really like that idea so take time to
self reflect and analyze what you like
or don't like about your job before you
pull the trigger and change your career
path okay I hope this also gives you
some ideas on how to do analysis of your
own job especially if you are thinking
about your next big move if you like
this podcast please subscribe and
comment on Apple podcasts I also have a
youtube channel many of you know if you
prefer video format go to youtube
channel type ham dinner you will find me
instantly again if you like the content
please please please subscribe so be
well enjoy your job and I'll talk to you
next week take care bye bye
if you enjoyed this podcast please share
it with your colleagues and leave a
review on Apple podcast
[Music]